SSH Local Port Forwarding
SSH local port forwarding allows us to
tunnel a local port
to a remote server using SSH as the
transport protocol.
The effects of this method are similar to
rinetd port forwarding, with a few twists.
Let’s take another scenario into
consideration.
During an assessment, we have compromised
a Linux-based target
target through a remote vulnerability,
elevated our privileges to root,
and gained access to the passwords for
both the root
and student users on the machine.
This compromised machine does not appear
to have any outbound traffic filtering,
and it only exposes SSH on port 22
RDP on port 3389, and port 8080,
the vulnerable service port, which are
all allowed on the firewall.
In this example, we will once again use
our dedicated Debian Linux box
to represent the compromised Linux-based
target.
After enumerating the compromised Linux
client,
we discover that not only is it connected
to the current network,
but it has another network interface that
is connected to a different
internal network.
In this internal subnet, we identify a
Windows Server 2016 machine
that has network shares available.
To simulate this configuration in our
lab environment,
we will run the ssh local port forwarding
script
from our dedicated Linux client that will
allow access to ports 3389, 22 and 8080.
In such a scenario, we could move the
attack and enumeration tools we need
need to the compromised Linux machine and
then try to interact with the shares on
the 2016 server, but this is neither
elegant nor scalable.
Instead, we want to interact with this
new target from our Kali attack machine,
pivoting through the compromised Linux
client.
This way, we will have access to all of
the tools on our Kali machine.
This will require some port-forwarding
magic,
and we will use the ssh client’s local
port forwarding feature
h ssh -L to help with this.
Inspecting the manual of the ssh client,
we notice that the -L parameter specifies
the port on the local host
that we want to forward to a remote
address and port.
In our scenario, we want to forward port
445 on our Kali machine
to port 445 on the Windows Server 2016
target.
When we do this, any Microsoft file
sharing queries directed at our Kali
machine will be forwarded to our Windows
Server 2016 target.
This seems impossible given that the
firewall is blocking traffic
on TCP port 445, but this port forward
is tunneled through our SSH session
on port 22, which is allowed through the
firewall.
In summary, the request will hit our Kali
machine on port 445,
will be forwarded across the SSH session,
and will then be passed on to port 445
on the Windows Server 2016 target.
To pull this off, we will execute an ssh
command from our Kali Linux
attack machine.
We will start with -N since we do not
need to execute remote commands,
but we will set up port forwarding with
-L,
and bind port 445 on our local machine,
to port 445 on the Windows Server,
and do this through a connection to our
original Linux target as the student user.
At this point, any incoming connection on
port 445 of our Kali Linux box,
should be forwarded to port 445 on the
Windows server IP through our compromised
Linux client.
Before testing this, we need to make a
minor change in our Samba configuration
file to set the minimum SMB version to
SMBv2,
and then restart the samba demon,
We’re doing this because Windows Server
2016 no longer supports SMBv1 by default.
Now we can try to list the remote shares
on the Windows Server 2016 machine
by pointing the request to our
Kali machine.
We will use the the smbclient utility,
supplying the IP address of our local
machine,
and the remote user name.
If everything goes according to plan,
after we enter the remote password,
all the traffic on that port should be
redirected to the Windows machine,
and we should be presented with the
available shares.
Not only was the command successful but
since this traffic was tunneled through
SSH, the entire transaction was encrypted.
We can use this port forwarding setup to
continue to analyze the target server
via port 445, or forward other ports to
perform further enumeration.
Although we have started an application proxy that can route application traffic to the target network through the SSH tunnel, we must somehow tell our tools how to use this proxy.